# Automated Triangulator

This a 2D automated meshing tool that can generates two types of meshes: Isoceles Right Triangle (IRT) mesh and General Triangle (GT) mesh. For the GT mesh, the
meshing tool is built on an existing Delauney triangulation package called Triangle (https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~quake/triangle.html).


Instructions

A. If an IRT mesh is needed, just run mesher.m. 

   A.1. Tune the parameters IRT_N_H, IRT_L, IRT_RatioLH, IRT_S to change the domain size and mesh resolution. See comments in mesher.m for explanations for these paramenters.

   A.2. The generated mesh file is IRTmesh.mat, which can be directly used by the FVDBM solver.


B. If a general triangle (GT) mesh is needed, run PreTri_poly_main.m, which will call mesher.m

   B.1. Tune the parameters from line 1 to line 21 to tune the geometry and mesh related parameters. See comments in mesher.m for explanations for these paramenters. The current code can only generate one internal circular hole. Neglect the lines from 23 to 44 for multiple holes.


   B.2. In the popup window "Please select the Mesher folder location", click "OK". Then in another popup window, select the folder where the mesher.m file is located. Usually, mesher.m is located in the same folder as PreTri_poly_main.m. So, just click the button "Select Folder" to complete the folder selection.

   B.3. In the popup window "Please select the Triangle folder location", click "OK". Then in another popup window, select the folder where the Triangle is located. Click the folder "Triangle", then click the button "Select Folder" to complete the folder selection.

   B.4. Ignore the following messages, which was used to provid intructions prior to the meshing process was automated.
        1. Copy the mesh file .ele, .node, .neigh and .edge into the current working directory.
        2. Create four .txt files in the current working directory named as ele, node, neigh and edge seperately.
        3. Open .ele file with text editor and copy its content into ele.txt file, then delete the first and last line then save.
        4. Repeat for node, neigh and edge files.
        5. Import data from four .txt files into Matlab. Select Delimited and and select Numeric Matrix for Output Type.
        6. Save the imported raw mesh data as mat file for future use.

   B.5. The generated mesh file is GTmesh.mat, which can be directly used by the FVDBM solver.
        The processed raw mesh data coming out or Trianle is saved as ImportedTri.mat, which contained only edge, ele, neigh, and node files generated by Triangle, but in the .mat format.
        The original mesh files direclty generated by Triangle without any processing are PreTri_NewPoly.txt, edge.txt, ele.txt, neigh.txt, and node.txt.